Building the SDK

Building the .NET SDK for Google Data APIs is pretty straightforward. After you get the whole repository, you 
only need to open the the solution file "Google Data API SDK.sln" in the trunk/clients/cs/src/ directory. 

Building this for debug and release results in the appropriate targets. They are in the default output 
directories setup by Visual Studio though, and not in the distribution directories. 

Note, that the over 250K lines of source code in this project were developed over 5 years. Yes, if you redo 
everything it's going to be much prettier, but redoing 250K lines of code is quite a task. 

Requirements

To use everything available to you, you need:

ILMerge
SandCastle 
SandCastleHelpFileBuilder
Python

Versioning:

In trunk/clients/cs/version you find AssemblyVersion.cs. This is the version masterfile that is included from 
all other places. Change this to 1.8.0.0 etc to make a build with a stable version number, after you released this,
change it to 1.8.0.* again, so that subsequent builds create higher version numbers.


Building the MOBILE version of the SDK

Another solution file, for windows mobile, exists in trunk/clients/cs/src/VS2005.mobile/GDataMobile.sln". 
This file will only build the subset of DLLs for the Windows Mobile release. 

Building the Samples

Open the "Google Data APIs Samples.sln" solution file in trunk/clients/cs/samples and you will
build all related samples, beside one, the "YouTubeSample.sln" in the same directory. YouTubeSample is a 
webservice application, as such it deserved a seperate solution. 

Batch jobs to help

In the trunk/clients/cs/misc directory you will find some batch jobs to help building.

pushdlls.cmd 

This batch builds release, mobile and debug DLLs, as well as all samples, and place them in the appropriate 
directories. It will also run ILMerge on 3 of the samples to make them simple .exe files with no dependencies. 

Assuming pushdlls is successful, you have a lot of updated DLLs in /trunk/clients/cs/lib and the subdirectories. 
Normally you run this command to update all the DLLs at the location they are supposed to be in the repository, then
you submit them from this place.


Documentation

TO BUILD DOCS YOU NEED TO ENLIST NOT JUST IN TRUNK, BUT IN DOCS on the same level.

The documentation is build using the sandcastle help builder system, released by Microsoft in 2008. The
project file is gdatadocumentation.shfbproj in \trunk\clients\cs\misc. To help with this,
you can use the pushdoc.cmd file located in the same directory. This will kick of the building of the 
helpfile, and then copy the .CHM and the created HTML files to the \docs\ part of the subversion repository.

Now, to update the HTML part of the documentation, that's kind of tricky. In the past our hosting system was 
not robust enough to handle one directory, containing several thousand help files. To overcome that I wrote a python
script that splits the documentation across directories, updating the indexes and links accordingly. You run this
by using splitdocs.py in the /trunk/clints/cs/misc directory. When that's all done, and you verified that
the docs work, you can submit this in the docs dir. Note, that this takes a while. The index.html file produced
by the python script is the one that is linked to from the codesite page. 

Also tricky is to not forget to set all newly created HTML pages to be of type text/html in subversion, so that
they conform to browser standards and are displayed as HTML pages. 

Setup

Setup is the last thing you build. You first go and change the version number to a fix/round number as described above.
Then you use pushdlls, run the unittests etc. When this is all fine, you build documentation and checkin everything. 

Now you use pushsetuptree.cmd in trunk/clients/cs/misc to pretty much get a fresh tree out of subversion. Then you open 
another project, in trunk/clients/cs/setup, called Google Data API Setup.sln. You will need to ADD or DELETE all modified 
files from the projects. Yes, by now, you can create setups differently, but in VS2003, when this whole thing started, this
was the best way to do it, and i was always to lazy to change the process to something slightly more elegant, but with no other
real benefits. 

Build the setup, check it in, and then put it on the codesite download page, following the naming conventions used there.
The created setup does NOT include the source code anymore.


Linux release

There is a demand for linux releases. To do this, use the maketar.sh setup script, and then upload the files to codesite, 
following the naming conventions used there.
